Two Former Heads of State, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida and Gen. Abdulsami Abubakar, have expressed confidence in the Nigerian Army’s effort in tackling the insecurity confronting the nation. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu in a statement, said the former leaders stated this when the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, visited them separately on Monday in Minna.   Babangida said he was confident in Nigerian Army’s ability to stem the current security challenges being confronted across the country. He noted that the Nigerian army had put up tremendous efforts to tackle the security challenges. On his part, Gen. Abubakar expressed satisfaction with the unrelenting drive of the COAS in confronting the threats at all fronts.   He added that Yahaya assumed command at a time the nation was being confronted with multifaceted security challenges. Abubakar commended the COAS for engaging key stakeholders across the country in the search for public support and cooperation to effectively enhance ongoing military operations. He further lauded the COAS for his pragmatic leadership and visiting military formations and theatres of operations to engage and motivate the troops.   He called on officers in junior leadership of the Nigerian army to emulate the exemplary leadership style and virtues of Yahaya. Also, Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger, called on people of the state and Nigerians in general to support the military and other security agencies in the ongoing anti-banditry and counter-insurgency operations across the country. Bello said there would be deficiency in the socio-economic development of the nation if the citizens are not secured.   He urged stakeholders and well meaning Nigerians to support and cooperate with the military and other security agencies in the fight against banditry and other security challenges in the country. The governor assured the COAS of his government’s cooperation with Nigerian army to mitigate the scourge of insecurity in the state. In his responses, the COAS said he was on a working visit to the state and Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command, Nigerian Army, for the Doctrinal Development Conference, aimed at reviewing Army training and operational concepts.   He said the visit to the two former Heads of State and the Governor was to pay homage and interface with them in his effort to squarely address security challenges in Niger and the nation in general. Yahaya expressed optimism that the armed forces and other security agencies would overcome the current security challenges, with the right support and cooperation from key stakeholders and the citizenry. (NAN)