By: Agbaji Chinedu One of the most popular agribusiness in Nigeria is fish farming, because of the jobs it has created through the value chains. Nowadays, the modern farm practice has made it possible to grow fish in the farms. Gone are the days when the only means of getting fish is through the local rivers etc through trial and errors. Fish farming is an act of rearing fish for commercial purpose. This involves building the earthen, tarpaulin or concrete pond, fertilizing the pond, stocking the fingerlings in good water and feeding the Mackerel, Tilapia or catfish till market size. While there are thousands of fish species all around the globe, only very few of them are viable for commercial fish farming. Nigeria is one of the largest aquaculture producers in Sub-Saharan Africa. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the fish farming business employed over 13,000 people in 2012 in Nigeria. Also, fish farming just like other agricultural areas is encouraged by the government and can receive financial support from the government and other institutions. Fish farming thrives in most parts of Nigeria especially Southwest, South, Southeast, and North Central. The most farmed species of fish in Nigeria are catfish and tilapia, even though Nigeria has an environment that supports the farming of other tropical species of fish. A fish farm is considered to be well planned when the water control structure, different pond compartments/sizes and other management structures complement each other. TWO MOST COMMON FISH FARMED IN NIGERIA STEPS TO CONSIDER WHILE STARTING A FISH FARM Note: You need to be trained properly before engaging into fish farming for optimal result.  Nigerians consume nearly 2 million tons of fish per year, and the country’s growing population ensures demand will continue to boom. Demand far outweighs current national production, making it necessary to import fish from all over the world. However, in recent years the price of imported fish has increased significantly because of the devaluation of the Nigerian naira. OPPORTUNITIES IN FISH FARMING VALUE CHAINS ARE AS FOLLOWS: Fish farming represents a major market opportunity for smallholder farmers in Nigeria, and Chi Farms is helping farmers, especially women, take advantage of it to build sustainable, long-term sources of income. By providing farmers with inputs, education in aquaculture best practices, and technical support throughout the production cycle, Chi Farms is helping support small business growth for women. And by facilitating financial access and market linkage Chi Farms is building a sustainable aquaculture sector in Nigeria.