Some stakeholders in Nigeria have commended Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi, for his giant strides in security and his approach to good governance as he celebrates his 46th birthday. The stakeholders gave the commendation at GYB @ 46 Birthday Symposium, with the theme: ”Insecurity In Nigeria And Role Of The Youth”, organised to mark the 46th birthday celebration of the governor on Friday at Government House, Lokoja.   In his contribution, the Oni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II, commended the governor for his achievements in security and for his commitment, focused and energetic efforts to the course of uniting the country. ”I feel your spirit, I see your passion, I see your love for the unity of this great nation. ”The truth must be told as we all know the situation of insecurity currently facing our country. What are you going to pioneer?   ”Let us continue to talk to our people by engaging them. We must continue to deliberate on our peaceful coexistence,” he said. The traditional ruler urged the governor to think deeply on what he would pioneer, and what he would stand up or known for, and promised to always be there for the governor anytime, anyday.   Ogunwusi stressed the need to bring governance to the youths, saying they constituted over 70 per cent of the country’s population, and should be carried along in the scheme of things. Also speaking, a Resource Person and one of the Panelists, Chief George Moghalu, praised the governor for his achievements in the state, and urged him to be a role model that the youths of this country would like to emulate.   Moghalu commended the governor for involving a great percentage of women in his government. He stressed the important roles that families play in ensuring the peace and security of any nation. ”We are in a country where criminals are being celebrated; family moral ethics eroded. There is the need to go back to the basis which is the family and our fundamental problems as a country.   ”We have also continued to emphasis on Certificates instead of celebrating quality skills; there is need to diverse the economy of this country. ”Government must create and provide the enabling environment for the private sector to thrive, because the government cannot do it alone or give jobs to everyone,” he said. On his part, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, the former Minister of Aviation, commended the governor for fighting security headlong in Kogi and for always standing by his words.   He also lauded the governor for his wisdom and personal initiative in mediating and bringing peace in resolving the recent issues between the northern food marketers and their southern counterparts. ”This is the kind of man we need at the national level in this country,” Fani-Kayode said In her comment, Dr Bilkisu Magoro, a panelist, stressed the need for women inclusiveness in governance, saying women knew what the problems were and know how to handle them.   According to her, among all the States in Nigeria, it is only Kogi that has the highest number of women affirmative even more than the required 35 per cent. ”That is why Kogi State is enjoying peace more than any other State. Women should be more involved in governance; more inclusiveness of women in governance is the way to go,” Magoro said.   Also speaking, Prof Chris Nwaokobia, noted that the country had lost that which should hold us effectively together, saying, ”every ethnicity has offended each other at one point or the other.” According to him, what we should do is to look at things that unite us, and strengthened them and build on them. ”The time has come for us to bury those things that divide us. The time to stop the killing and unite Nigeria is now.   ”I believe that the youth of Nigeria can take our country out of the present situation. ”I believe in the capacity of GYB to take our country to greater heights,” he said. In his response, the Governor noted that his administration is sincere, transparent and decisive, inclusive and opened to all irrespective of tribe, ethnic or religious differences.   ”Our government is inclusive. We sort for the best hands for those who are ready to serve; my cabinet includes all the major tribes in Nigeria. ”We are raising young leaders that will take over from us because there is time for everything. ”I will implore our leaders and fathers to pay attention to what we have done in Kogi State. Whether anybody believes it or not, Kogi is the most peaceful State in Nigeria,” Bello said.   The highlight of the occasion was the unveiling and launching of a book, titled: ”GYB Through The Cases: A Compendium Of Historic Electoral Challenges And Victory”, authored by Shadrach Emmanuel. Other dignitaries at the event were the Deputy Senate President, Ovi Omo-Agege; the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; and the Governor of Kwara State, Abdulrahman Abdulrasak; among others. (NAN)