Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has congratulated Mr Ovuakpoye Evivie on his victory in Saturday’s by-election for the Isoko-South Constituency 1 seat in the House of Assembly. The governor also congratulated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the outcome of the election in which its member, Evivie emerged victorious.   Okowa’s felicitations was conveyed in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, on Sunday in Asaba. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had announced that Evivie scored 6,957 votes to win the election. Also, Dr Ogaga Ifowodo of All Progressives Congress (APC), got 1,301 votes while Mr Michael Emumena of Social Democratic Party (SDP) polled 1,291 votes to emerge second and third respectively at the election.   The governor described the victory of Evivie and PDP as “well deserved and a confirmation of PDP’s dominance in Delta”. He said that the people of Isoko-South Constituency 1 across the five Wards in the area through the ballots, spoke very lucidly of the choice of Evivie as their representative in the state’s parliament. The governor, who led members of PDP in the Ward-to-Ward rally prior to the election, remarked that Isoko- South people had once again proven their loyalty and commitment to PDP.   However, he expressed sadness at the reported killing of a voter in Irri Ward by unknown gunmen and urged security agencies to go after the assailants and bring them to book. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I congratulate Mr Ovuakpoye Evivie on his victory in the Isoko-South Constituency 1 by-election. “It is heart-warming to see him emerge as member-elect and I am grateful to the people of Isoko-South for their immense support to our party and their clear message to the opposition in the area.   “Let me also thank the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies, observers and other stakeholders for a successful election adjudged to be free, fair and credible. “The introduction of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) by INEC was the hallmark of the election as real voters were duly authenticated, leading to a very credible and fraud-free exercise.   “In spite of the peace that characterised the election, I deplore the reported killing of a voter in Irri Ward 10 and, I urge security agencies to go after the culprits and bring them to justice,” he said. (NAN)