Niger State Governor and Chairman North Central States Governor’s Forum (NCSGF) Abubakar Sani Bello says negative publicity on the security challenges in Nigeria has continued to hinder genuine businessmen’s effort to invest in the country.  He said the negative publicity with regards to security challenges has affected many states in the country towards attracting foreign direct, or even indirect investment adding that those challenges are been successfully tackled at the moment by the Federal and State governments.   Governor Sani Bello, who is attending a bilateral, economic, trade and investment forum in Istanbul,Turkey, disclosed that the Nigerian government have recorded significant progress in addressing the problems of insecurity stressing that, though it will take some time to end, it should not deter investors from coming to Nigeria.  “I know a few Turkish companies that are in Nigeria at the moment. They are doing their business and doing really well. So, I think there’s the need to build investors confidence with regards to the security challenges in Nigeria”, he added.   After meeting with lots of Turkish companies, The Governor stated that, although many of them have shown enthusiasm and interest to work in Nigeria, most foreign companies lacked the courage to visit and do business in the country.   The Governor, who applauded the organizers of the forum for what he described as very timely event, however suggested that more Turkish companies and or their CEOs should be invited next time so that they are able to explain to the people in Turkey that Nigeria is not as bad as its been portrayed.   He said “there’s the urgent need to change the narrative, and to mount aggressive image laundering campaigns to change the negative perception and impression of foreign investors towards our country. Every country of the world has its own peculiar challenges, but they are surmountable”.  “I am glad we are able to attend the bilateral economic, trade and investment forum. We’ve met with lots of companies, including security companies as well. In my opinion, the event was timely and the organizers did a wonderful job”, he said.