By Chimezie Godfrey The Nigerian Army has condemned the dehumanizing of corps member by a female officer as seen in a video clip making the round on the social media. The Nigerian Army through a statement signed by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu described the act as unprofessional and against its established precepts of discipline.  “The Nigerian Army (NA) has taken cognizance of a video clip currently making the rounds on the social media, where a female officer was seen dehumanizing a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Calabar, Cross River State. “This act is not only condemnable, but unprofessional and against established precepts of discipline in the NA.  “The NA has remained undoubtedly the pride of the nation, a symbol of national unity that has consistently being in the vanguard of respect for the fundamental human rights of the citizenry. “It is against this premise that the NA condemns this unimaginable level of infraction by a personnel in its ranks. The NA therefore, condemns in strong terms, this act of gross misconduct. Undoubtedly, the officer’s actions has caused the NA monumental embarrassment and is highly regrettable.  “This unfortunate act of indiscipline does not in anyway represent the NA and will not be condoned in its entirety,” General Nwachukwu stated. Setting the record straight, Gen Nwachukwu said the ugly incident happened in 13 Brigade, Calabar, and that the Brigade Commander immediately instituted an investigation and the officer involved has been identified and sanctioned on the interim and would be made to undergo regimental orders (trial) in line with the extant provisions of the Armed Forces Act. He therefore stated that the submission that the Brigade attempted covering up was therefore misleading, as the NA remains a professional force that has zero tolerance for indiscipline amongst its personnel. Gen. Nwachukwu assured the general public that the NA would not tolerate such infractions from its personnel.  He also reassured that the rights of the citizenry is sacrosanct and must be respected by all personnel of the NA, as any form of infraction will be severely dealt with. He therefore, enjoined the general public to continue to report such infractions, as Human Rights Desks in all formations of the NA are emplaced to deal decisively with such erring personnel. According to him, the NA further tendered unreserved apology to the victim, her family members, friends, National Youth Service Corps and to Nigerians in general for the unwholesome treatment meted out to the Corps member.