Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has reassured security agencies of continuous support in Enugu State. Ugwuanyi said this on Thursday, in an address during the finale of inaugural GOC and Chairperson NAOWA 82 Division Football Competitions held at the Abakpa Military Cantonment, Enugu. The governor lauded the synergy and close working relations of security agencies in the state, which he said had better enhanced security in the state.   “I am delighted to see that sister military, sister security and para-military agencies are here to witness the competition, which shows the spirit of oneness and togetherness of all the security agencies in the state. “Enugu  is enjoying the support you all have been giving the state which has made it one of the most peaceful and secured states in the entire country,” he said.   Ugwuanyi also thanked Maj.-Gen. Taoreed Lagbaja, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, for his vision in organising the competition as well as engaging the youths meaningfully. Earlier, Lagbaja said that the competition was part of Civil-Military-Cooperation (CIMIC) activities meant to promote relationship between the barracks and its host communities, adding that other activities with similar aim were earlier conducted across different parts of the Division.   “For instance, in July this year, we conducted a number of free medical outreaches at various communities where our medical teams supported thousands of residents with free medical consultation, drugs and other services. “We equally supported thousands of pupils and students with educational support materials such as books, notebooks, pens, pencils, rulers etc.,” he said.   The GOC said that the football competition was meant to be part of the Division’s positive contributions toward the development of football talents at the grassroots level. “I have no doubt that football clubs’ scouts and other talent spotters would have noted a number of players among the participants over the past two weeks of the competition.   “It is my belief that this would be a crucial part of the beginning of efforts in developing the local league and other associated industries around sports in Nigeria for the benefit of the state and country at large. “Similarly, the competition would help to channel youthful energies from crimes and other misdemeanors to productive endeavors,” he added.   In the football competition finale for male (U-17), Dragon FC, Abakpa defeated Noble Great Achievers FC, Enugu  2 – 1; while in the female category, Dragon Babes FC, Abakpa defeated Coal City Babes FC, Enugu 3 – 1. For the male football category, Pascal Chukwu was the highest goal scorer; Obinna Kenneth got the most valuable player award and David Okoh, got the most valuable goalkeeper award (all three from Dragon FC).   For the female football category, Gift Onyinye, from Dragon Babes FC, got the most valuable goalkeeper award. The teams at the male and female categories finale got medals and cash awards.   Dragon FC and Dragon Babes FC got giant trophies each for being winners of the two categories respectively. (NAN)