By Chimezie Godfrey Former President of the Senate, Senetor David Mark has for the Umpteenth time expressed concern over the unabating spate of violent crimes and insecurity across Nigeria and urged security operatives to review strategy towards reversing the situation . Senator Mark said citizens of Nigeria have been exposed to more than enough ridicule on account of the insecurity challenges saying “Governments and security agents should do more to restore hope and trust in the land”.   In his goodwill message to Nigerians marking this year’s Christmas celebration, he noted that the present security strategy seems not to be yielding the expected results saying “ a review of the operational strategy is therefore necessary in order to address the intractable issues “. Part of the proposed review of strategy , Senator Mark said should include a comprehensive research to find out why some people resorts to violence and taking up arms against their fellow citizens and a country they once loved .   “ There is no need to pretend or shy away anymore . It should be stated categorically that the tragedy that has befallen Nigeria in terms of insecurity is beyond ordinary”, he stressed. Senator Mark therefore urged the government and the citizens alike to use this period of Yuletide to seek for divine intervention, reconcile and restore hope to the beleaguered people in order to heal the wounds of a broken bonds across nation.   He said: “ Nothing can be more depressing and frustrating than a people without hope or future . Our people cannot feel safe in their homes, places of works, worship centers or on the roads . No responsible society should allow this continue “. Senator Mark also called on the religious leaders to preach the message of peace, tolerance and harmonious relationship just as he reminded that “Nigeria remains the only home and country we can call our own”.   He added that the Yuletide season calls for forgiveness, reconciliation and unity of purpose to make Nigeria a safer and better place for all. Senator Mark wishes Nigerians a merry and prosperous new year.