The All Progressives Congress (APC) Rebirth Group has appealed to the partys leadership to adhere strictly to laid down procedures before sanctioning erring members. Alhaji Aliyu Audu, coordinator of the group made the appeal in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja while reacting to the suspension of Mr Mustapha Audu from the party. Audu was the son of late Abubakar Audu, a former governor of Kogi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Audu, a former governorship aspirant of the APC was suspended from the party over a news conference by the Progressive Youth Movement (PYM) led by him.   The PYM at the conference had announced the dissolution of the APC Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and constituted a new one. Sen. James Akpanudoedehe, Secretary APC CECPC in reacting to the development, described the PYM as a paid and misguided group who were unregistered and its members unknown to the party. Consequently, Mr Peter Onoja, Chairman of the APC in Ogbonicha Ward of Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi, at a news conference disowned Audu, saying he had ceased to be a member of the party.   The APC Rebirth Group coordinator, however, said that even if the party would impose any disciplinary action on Audu, its Constitution should be followed to the latter. He described Audus suspension from the APC as unconstitutional, saying that; “the party should adhere to laid down rules and procedures prescribed for the discipline of its members’’. He added that party members should at all times be given the fair chance to defend themselves, stressing that the APC could not punish alleged Illegality with another Illegality.  “It’s our hope that whoever is behind the ongoing attempt to checkmate the activities of Prince Audu’s group or any other group for that matter would do so with a clear obedience to the partys Constitution.  “Illegalities and violation of rights must have no space within a progressive party such as the APC and a democratic country under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari.  “Because Audu expressed a contrary opinion or embarked on activities that were seen to be against the partys current leadership does not warrant his being denied his rights as a full-fledged member of the party.   “While we may differ in the approach adopted by any other group, the goal remains to ensure that the APC take its pride of place,’’ he said. This, the coordinator of the APC Rebirth Group also known as Concerned APC Stakeholders said included the enthronement of the right leadership at the partys forthcoming National Convention.   He appealed to the Gov. Mai Mala Buni-led APC CECPC to ensure that the partys National Convention was conducted in February 2022 as approved by Buhari to avoid problems. (NAN)