By Chimezie Godfrey The Publish What You Pay (PWYP), Nigeria Coalition has condemned the. Nembe OML 29 oil spill that has continued to cause havoc without being stopped. In a statement signed by its National Coordinator, Comrade Taiwo Otitolaye, the coalition decried the close to 3 million barrels of crude have been spilled since in early November when this ugly incidence commenced, adding that the negative impacts of the spills on host communities are enormous.  Otitolaye expressed worry over the irresponsiveness of the supervisory agency, and therefore urged it to quickly wake up to its duties to restore normalcy. He said,”The Publish What You Pay (PWYP), Nigeria Coalition is seriously taken aback that for over a month, the OML 29 Santa Barbra oil well 1 in Nembe Local Government of Bayelsa state has continued to cause havocs without it been stopped. More worrisome is that there seem to be no end to this human inflicted disaster.   “From our field reports, it is estimated that close to 3 million barrels of crude have been spilled since in early November when this ugly incidence commenced. “Our concerns are further exacerbated as the indigenous operator, Aiteo Exploration and Production Company Limited has brazenly demonstrated that it lacks the capacity to stop this long period of horror occasioned by the protracted spills.  “These spills, have far reaching negative consequences in terms of hazards and unquantified losses to the communities, the people and the environment at large.  “The manifestations are better imagined on women, children, livelihoods, fishing, farming activities, cancerous and other health related diseases; which will extend to inter-generational thread across board.   “To worsen matters, the supervisory agency, Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), is insensitive, irresponsive and has not demonstrated that is has the mechanisms to bring the situation under control. The NUPRC must quickly wake up to her duties to restore normalcy.”  He stressed that the PWYP is equally not persuaded by Governor Diri’s surface and inconsequential empathy. “What is urgently needed is stoppage of the spills, mitigation, restitution and adequate compensation to the communities, and the environment. This is another exposure of lily-livered politicians and leadership camouflaging as representatives of the people.  “The recently enacted Petroleum Industry’s Act (PIA) should not be another idle roll call register, it must be effectively used to regulate irregularities in the oil and gas sector.  “Political will must not only be exercised to aggravate the sufferings of the citizenry through petroleum price increases without benefits and corresponding development.   “It is time for the Nigerian government to unmask the long years of inefficiency and low capacity to resolve the oil pollution in the Niger Delta, its attendant environmental impacts and climate disasters,” Otitolaye stressed.