By Chimezie Godfrey The Chairman of Fiscal Responsibility Commission, (FRC) Dr. Victor Muruako has expressed very deep concern over time and cost motorists waste on Abuja-Keffi gateway due to avoidable traffic jams and its negative effect on the nation’s economy. He observed that part of the problem was some Construction companies’ inability to tidy up roads over the years, leaving users to their fate.  He pointed this out recently after he was conferred with the Doctoral fellow of the Society of Project Management and Development Professionals International (SPMDPI).  Murako expressed deep appreciation to the project management body for bestowing the prestigious honour on him and promised to always uphold the values of the professional body. He urged the FRC staff, who were in Keffi f to cue into the project management courses to add value to their lives saying that though the body might not be as big as other professional associations but they make bigger on the lives of individuals.  The FRC Boss noted that his life has not remained the same after undergoing training at the project management body saying that it has changed his perception about work ethic as he now sees every undertaking as a project.  He thanked the Management and staff of the Commission for their support so far towards delivering the mandates and reaffirmed his determination to continuously lead the way in promoting transparency, accountability and prudence in public finance in Nigeria.  Earlier, while conferring the highest honour of the Society on FRC Chairman, The Registrar of SPMDPI, Dr Ayodele Edwards said Muruako’s dedication to the ethos of project management in Nigeria has been impressive despite the lean resources of the Commission. He said the portrait of the honoree who was the 6th personality to be accorded with the Doctoral fellow will be displayed at their London office.  He described Barrister Muruako as a Boss who is always interested in investing in human capacity, training and retraining of his staff on strategic topics that can improve the productivity of the Commission.