By Rosemary Ogbonnaya The Nigerian Institute of Architects,NIA, has inaugurated Arc. Enyi Ben-Eboh FNIA as its 29thPresident. Arc. Enyi Ben-Eboh succeeds Arc. Sonny S.T. Echono fnia who marshaled the affairs of the Institute in the last two years during which period its fortunes witnessed a steady rebirth after years of internal discord in the profession.  Other officers elected into the NIA Executive Council by its members in Nigeria and other parts of the world include Arc. Mobolaji Adeniyi fnia 1st Vice President, Arc. Sani Ithisham Saulawa fnia 2nd Vice President, Arc. Chioma Wogu-Ogbonna fnia 3rd Vice President, Arc. Ibeanu ChikeChamberlain fnia Honorary General Secretary and Arc. Ali Mukhtar fnia Treasurer.Enyi Ben-Eboh noted that prior to the last two years the Architecture profession had gonethrough a four year period of internal strife and reassured all members of the Institute that hisadministration would continue in the path of reconciliation as initiated by his predecessor.  He further assured all that in the first quarter of 2022 an all-encompassing retreat will beconvened to not only examine new strategies to reposition the NIA but provide a platform to bring to a closure all contentious issues within the Architecture family in Nigeria. Ben-Eboh also promised to rebrand the Institute for sustainable growth, development and nationalrelevance. The NIA President promised to collaborate with international sister organisations in the areas ofcapacity building, knowledge sharing and technological transfer while pledging to collaboratewith other built environment professions to develop the nation’s construction industry as wasinitiated during the last Archibuilt Expo held in October this year.  Highlights of the 61st Annual General Meeting themed Smart Architecture: Exploring NewFrontiers in Architectural Practice, included paper presentations which dwelt on global trends inArchitecture, afrocenterism/ Culture sensitive Architecture as well as new techniques in UrbanDesign for African cities. In his address, the Special Guest of Honour at the occasion, HE Senator Liyel Imoke the formerGovernor of Cross River State commended the unique process through which the Institutechooses its leaders.  Smoke extolled the virtues of the new President who served under his administration as the Managing Director of the state owned special purpose vehicle for housingdelivery and expects that he would apply same diligence in his new assignment as NIA President. The event also witnessed the conferment of Awards on past Presidents of the Institute as well as a Posthumous Award of Excellence conferred on one of Nigeria’s foremost Architects in theperson of Chief Isaac Folayan Alade OFR, FNIA who passed on June 19, 2021.The posthumous Award was received on behalf of the family by his daughter Arc. Yinka Williams.