Dana Air has reiterated its commitment to support the Federal Government’s ongoing efforts to revamp the economy and make the aviation industry viable. Mr Kingsley Ezenwa, the airline’s Communications Manager, made this known in a statement issued in Lagos on Friday.   He quoted the airline’s new Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Sukhjinder Mann, as restating Dana Air’s position during a courtesy visit by Aviation Handling Services (AHS) Nigeria Limited officials to him. Mann said the airline could only support the government desire to improve the economy by continuing to improve on its operational efficiency, having spent 13 years in the industry.   The Deputy CEO added that the airline was ready to offer its passengers seamless flight service, quality 24/7 customer service, onboard service and affordable fares. He said: As part of efforts to celebrate our customers this yuletide, we have introduced N18,000 flash sales. “This is for our customers travelling from Asaba, Owerri and Enugu to Lagos and this will be on till Dec. 31.”   Mann thanked the team from AHS aviation handling company for the show of support. AHS’s Director, Mr Sam Oluwole, said they were af the airline to welcome Mann back to the Nigerian Aviation industry. Oluwole said the company was ready to discuss challenges in the ground handling sector of the industry, business opportunities, infrastructure limitation of the airports.   The company’s director, therefore, assured Mann of its readiness and availability to support Dana Air at all times. He said: “Mr Sukhjinder Mann is a Ground Handling Veteran, and has worked in various top management capacities in so many countries around the world including Africa and Europe, and coming back to Nigeria. “His joining the Management team of Dana Air as Deputy CEO speaks volumes of how Dana places premium on appointing highly experienced professionals in the management of its affairs.”   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Dana Air is one of Nigeria’s leading airlines with a varied fleet of nine aircraft and daily flights from Lagos to Abuja, Owerri, Port Harcourt, Enugu and Asaba. (NAN)