By Rosemary Ogbonnaya Federal Government of Nigeria has signed a Memorandum ofUnderstanding with the Government of Burkina Faso to prevent, suppress andpunish trafficking in persons especially women and children. The legal instrument designed to unleash intense heat on human traffickers and their cohort operating within the corridors of the two Countries was signed in Abuja at the climax of the 3rd Nigeria /Burkina Faso Joint Commissionheld in Abuja and was witnessed by an array of dignitaries from both Counties including the Director General of the NationalAgency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons,NAPTIP, Dr Fatima Waziri – Azi.   The development came few weeks after similar agreement was signedbetween Nigeria and the Government of the Republic of Niger. The MOU stated that “ CONCERNED with the magnitude and menace ofhuman trafficking especially in women and children in both countries and its negative socio-economic impact on the wellbeing of their citizenry;   “RE-AFFIRMING that the commitment and obligations of both parties to theimplementation of the ECOWAS plan of Action Against Trafficking in persons2002-2003 and the following ratified international Legal instruments:“REALIZING that the fight against human trafficking especially women andchildren across borders can efficiently and effectively be fought only if thecountry of origin, transit and destination countries adopt a commoncomprehensive approach;“DETERMINED to mobilize necessary efforts and resources to punish all thoseengaged in human trafficking especially in women and children by prosecutingtheir crimes wherever they occur by co-operating at the international level;“CONSCIOUS of the fundamental principle of the best interest of the child andthe need to assist the victims of human trafficking, especially women andchildren.”  The well drafted legal instrument contained a total of 18 articles among whichare the Definition of Human trafficking with all the elements, Prosecution ofoffenders, Communication, Identifications, Protection and Care of Victims ofhuman trafficking, Return, Repatriation of Proceeds of the Crime as well asRehabilitation and Reintegration of Victims. In his speech, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. GabrielTanimu Aduda, stated that the agreement was part of the Federal Governmentof Nigeria effort to enhance mutual cooperation and strengthen relationshipbetween the two Countries.   He assured stakeholders that the contents of the Memorandum ofUnderstanding will be fully implemented in line with the approved procedures. Also in her speech, the Director General of the Burkina Faso Bilateral Cooperation, Mrs. Bakyonon Kanzie, thanked the Federal Government ofNigeria for the agreement,saying that her Country shall implement all aspects ofthe agreement to the benefits of Nigeria and Burkina Faso.   While the Nigeria Ambassador to Burkina Faso, His Excellency, Mistura Abdukarheem signed on behalf of Nigeria, the Burkina Faso Ambassador toNigeria, His Excellency, Piabie Firmin N’DO signed on behalf of the Burkina FasoGovernment. In her reaction, Director General of NAPTIP, Dr Fatima Waziri – Azi who was visibly elated by the development said the MOU remains a major onslaught on the activities of human traffickers not only within the routes of the two countries, but the entire West African sub-region.   The NAPTIP boss whose strategic focus of operation aligned with the articles of the MOU thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, the Minister ofHumanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, HajiyaSadiq Umar Farouk, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other State and Non – State Actors for the clear demonstration of political will to tackle incidence ofHuman Trafficking as exemplified through the signing of the MOU and assured that NAPTIP will continue to work assiduously to fulfil its mandates of combating human trafficking and all forms of violence against persons in theCountry. Bilateral Agreement was also signed in the areas of Sports development, Tradeand Investment, Information and Media, ICT as well as Women Development.