By Chimezie Godfrey The Defence Headquarters, DHQ, Abuja has said that troops have neutralized over 100 terrorists as 1,081 surrendered in the past two weeks. The Director, Defence Media Operations Brig-Gen Benard Onyeuko revealed this on Thursday in Abuja, at the bi-weekly briefing of journalists on the operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN).  Onyeuko acknowledged and applauded the noteworthy efforts and sacrifices of gallant officers and men as well as other security agencies that progressively conducted the various operations across the Country. He however disclosed that some of the troops paid the supreme prize in the course of the operations, adding that troops consistently exhibited gallantry and resilience in the various operations within the year.  Onyeuko revealed that troops of operation Hadin Kai carried out several land and air operations that recorded significant results which includes the killing of 51 terrorists, recovery of assorted arms and ammunition, and the surrender scores of terrorists and their family members.  He said,”Troops operational efforts in the locations in the last 2 weeks, cumulatively resulted in the neutralization of a total 51 and arrest of 19 terrorists. Also, a total of 122 assorted arms and 1,499 rounds of different calibres of ammunitions were recovered, while a total of 8 gun trucks of the terrorists were destroyed. Additionally, troops’ kinetic and non-kinetic operations have continued to drive the terrorists out of their camps into surrendering.  “Within this period in focus, a total of 1,081 terrorists and their families comprising 187 adult males, 326 adult females and 568 children surrounded to own troops at different locations of the theatre. The surrendered terrorists were properly profiled and handed over to appropriate authorities for necessary actions.  “Within the last 2 weeks, troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI sustained offensive operations against armed bandits and other criminal elements at different locations across the theatre. “With the support of the Air Component, troops launched deliberate attacks on identified bandits’ hideouts; successfully repelled armed bandits and robbers’ attacks on civilians in different villages; rescued victims and recovered assorted arms, ammunitions and other items at different locations. “The locations in which troops’ operational efforts yielded significant results include; Kaikazaka village in Sokoto State as well as Garbadu town and Saturi, Katanga, Badarawa and Tunga Na Yarchiga villages in Zamfara State; Cumulatively, a total of 33 armed bandits were neutralized, while 19 of them and their collaborators as well as armed herdsman were arrested.  “Also, 37 assorted arms, including AK-47 rifles, PKT machine guns and GPMGs as well as 698 rounds of different calibres of ammunitions, 22 motorcycles and 899 rustled livestock among other items and vehicles were recovered; while 28 kidnapped civilians were rescued in the course of the operations. Additionally, 59 extra magazines of assorted arms and 21 motorcycles were recovered from bandits.”  Onyeuko also said troops of Operation Safe Haven conducted various operations at different locations across the Country. He said troops successfully repelled armed bandits’ attacks and arrested child traffickers, cattle rustlers, kidnappers as well as armed bandits and robbers. “Troops also recovered several arms, ammunition and livestock during raid operations on criminal elements’ hideouts as well as repelled kidnappers and gunmen attacks at different locations across the theatre within the period.  “Cumulatively, a total of 15 criminal elements were arrested, 12 kidnapped civilians were rescued, while 118 livestock, 18 assorted arms and 112 different calibers of ammunition among other items were recovered in the course of the operations. Some of the operations were executed at; Maraban Foron village in Barkin Ladi LGA; Ganawuri and Chiri Danto villages in Riyom LGA as well as Utan village in Jos North LGA, all in Plateau State.  “Other locations were; Boto area in Tafawa Balewa LGA of Bauchi State; Gidan Waya town and Angwan Magaji village in Jama’a LGA of Kaduna State,” He further revealed that Operation Whirl Stroke operational efforts resulted in the neutralization and arrest of armed bandits and other criminal elements, recovery of arms and ammunition as well as rescue of kidnapped civilians. According to him, some of these operations were executed at; Tine Nune village in Mbatin Council Ward and Tse Yorbee town in Ukum LGA, Ojopa community and Edumoga forest in Okpokwu LGA and along Makurdi – Kula road, all in Benue State as well as Ugya forest in Toto LGA of Nasarawa State. Cumulatively, a total of 12 criminals were neutralized, while 26 criminal elements including 16 migrant armed bandits from Niger Republic were arrested.  “Also, 16 different types of arms and 61 different calibres of ammunition were recovered, while 13 kidnapped civilians were rescued within the period under review. “In addition, troops within the period, held peace and security meetings with critical stakeholders as non-kinetic means of tackling insecurity. Some of these meetings were held at; the Force Headquarters of Operation WHIRL STROKE in Makurdi and Lau LGA in Taraba State. Issues discussed at the meeting centered on how to find lasting solutions to the security challenges in the North Central Zone.  “The general security situation in the Operation Thunder Strike/Whirl Punch theatres was relatively calm within the period in focus. However, incidents of security concern were recorded at Wamba community in Mariga LGA of Niger State where troops repelled armed bandits’ attack on the community.  “During the encounter, troops neutralized some armed bandits and recovered their wepons and motorcycles. Similarly, incidents of security concern were recorded at; Hayin Gada and Rugan Alhaji Ori villages in Igabi LGA of Kaduna State, during which some arms and ammunition were recovered and some of the bandits were arrested. “Cumulatively, a total of 4 armed bandits were neutralized, 6 criminal elements arrested and 9 assorted armed, 2 extra AK-47 rifles magazines, 13 rounds of ammunition and 6 motorcycles were recovered in the course of the operations within the period,” he said.  Troops of Operation Delta Safe has sustained anti-illegal oil production operations and other non-kinetic operations to forestall activities of vandals and other economic saboteurs in the South – South Zone, Brig-Gen Onyeuko also revealed. According to him, some of these operations were executed at different locations in villages, creeks and towns in Ikwere, Port Harcourt, Emouha, Ahoada East and Bonny LGAs of Rivers State. Other locations are villages, towns and creeks in; Warri South, Warri South-West and Burutu LGAs of Delta State as well as Ogbia and Yenagoa LGAs of Bayelsa State. Troops’ operations also yielded significant results at; Unholu and Uwaza communities’ areas in Ukwa West LGA of Abia State.  “Consequently, in the last 2 weeks, troops discovered and immobilized a total of 14 illegal refining sites, 19 ovens, 13 cooking pots/boilers, 15 cooling systems, 15 reservoirs, 5 large dugout pits and 33 storage tanks in the Niger Delta Region. “A total of 896,500 litres and 70 polythene bags of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil were recovered in the process. Also, a total of 11,000 litres of illegally refined Dual Purpose Kerosene and 689,000 litres of stolen crude oil were recovered in the course of the operations. “In addition, 28 pieces of galvanized pipes, 3 tanker trucks and 12 wooden boats used for illegal oil bunkering activities were recovered and handled appropriately in the course of the operations. All the arrested criminals and recovered items have been handed over to relevant security agencies for further action,” he said. Onyeuko stressed that troops have continued to maintain their operational tempos in all the theatres of operation to frustrate terrorists, bandits, economic saboteurs and other criminal elements across the Country. “Also, the Air Components have continued to dominate all operation theatres with constant aerial patrols to forestall criminal activities across the Country. “Gleaning from the available information as I have just presented, there is no gain saying the efforts of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies so far yielded appreciable results. “Our operational performance for the year, as you may recall, is a show of our commitment, synergy and determination to lay down our lives to protect our great Nation. “We will continue to sustain the offensive and will not relent until peace is restored to every troubled zone in Nigeria,” Onyeuko said. He assured the general public of Armed Forces of Nigeria’s commitment to protect “our economic assets anywhere.” Onyeuko who thanked the general public for their support, further solicited their cooperation towards providing credible and timely information that will facilitate proactive engagements in their operations. According him, the Military High Command has commended all the gallant troops and further encouraged them to remain resolute and decisive in securing the Country.