…….Urges National Assembly to redeem situation   By Chimezie Godfrey The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has expressed shock over the refusal of President Buhari to assent to the Electoral Bill 2021. The Centre in a statement signed by its Executive Director, Idayat Hassan, said President Buhari missed a golden opportunity to write his name in gold in the history of Nigeria’s democracy.  It therefore called on the National Assembly to explore other options, which either to veto the President and pass the Electoral Act 2021 Ammendment bill into an act of the National Assembly or Immediately remove the provisions on direct primaries as raised by the President; and immediately re-present the bill to the President for his assent.  “The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) is shocked by President Mohammad Buhari’s decision to decline assent to the Electoral Bill 2021. Nigerians had all expected that President Buhari would write his name in gold as the President who bequeathed an improved electoral framework on the country.  “As the election is just fourteen months away, the CDD is calling on the National Assembly to immediately toe two immediate options: which is either veto the President and pass the Electoral Act 2021 bill into an act of the National Assembly; or Immediately remove the provisions on direct primaries as raised by the President and immediately re-present the bill to the President for his assent.  “We must not allow a single provision truncate the goodness in the proposed electoral bill,” the Executive Director stated. She noteed the fact that Nigeria is in dire need of a new and robust framework for the conduct of elections. Hassan pointed out that the reform in the Electoral Act Ammendment Bill 2021 will improve the quality of elections thereby imbuing citizens trust in democracy. “The National Assembly as the true representative of the people must not allow the huge human and financial resources that went into the Electoral Bill 2021 – from drafting to readings at the floor, the public hearing, the committee works, the retreat, the conference committee et al to go to waste.   “The National Assembly must act, and the time is now. Save our Elections and our Democracy,” she stated.