President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, tasked Nigerian Governors on imbibing the culture of continuity to develop their states and the entire nation.  The President gave the charge when he visited the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado-Bayero, shortly after the ground breaking ceremony of the Kano-Kaduna rail line project.  According to him, I am in kano to see some projects done by the present administration under Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, and I am happy with what I saw. The Governor is working to ensure that the state is not left behind.”  “Kano can compete with others globally, due to the tireless efforts of the Governor, who has dedicated himself to completing projects left behind by the previous administrations.”  The President reaffirmed his administration’s commitment in mapping out policies and programmes aimed at uplifting the standard of living of Nigerians. Earlier, Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje said the dedication and commitment of the federal government in reviving the transport sector is a clear indication of how Nigeria’s economy would bounce back.  He explained that effect of the Coronavirus pandemic had affected the economy of the entire world. He maintained that his administration would do everything within its powers to provide adequate security, free and compulsory education as well as quality healthcare among others.  Ganduje said: “I am delighted about the Kano- Kaduna railway project which will boost economic activities and revive the transport sector.” Also speaking, Ado-Bayero charged the President to intensify efforts toward tackling insecurity and the economy.  He described Buhari as a remarkable leader, thus urging Nigerians to intensify prayers for the security and unity of the country.   “We thank the President for the developmental projects throughout the country, particularly Kano state. I hope Nigerians will complement governments’ efforts by serving as watchdog of the society,” the Emir said.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Buhari was in Kano for the official ground breaking of the Kano-Kaduna rail line project at Zawachiki. (NAN)