…As focus shifts to remote, hard-to-reach areas, schools, health centres The Federal Government has approved the extension of the deadline for National Identity Number (NIN)-Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) data verification to  October 31, 2021.   This was disclosed in a statement Sunday jointly signed by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde,Director, Public Affairs, Nigerian Communications Commission and Mr Kayode Adegoke, Head, Corporate Communications, National Identity Management Commission. The decision to extend the deadline was made following a request by stakeholders to accommodate registration in hard-to-reach remote areas, foreigners and diplomatic missions, diaspora and address low enrolments in schools and hospitals, as evidenced  by enrolment statistics.   According to the joint statement, the decision also followed a review of the progress of the exercise which indicated significant progress, hence the need to consolidate the gains of the enrolment and NIN-SIM verification process across the country.  The statement disclosed that “As at July 24, 2021, there are over 5,500 enrolment systems within and outside the country and this would significantly ease the NIN enrolment process and subsequent linkage of NIN to SIM.  It further revealed that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, has approved the extension as part of efforts to make it easier for its citizens within and outside the country, and legal residents to obtain the NIN and it is important to take advantage of the extension.   The NIN-SIM linkage also makes it easier for the security agencies to carry out their statutory duties and the relevant parastatals under the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy are supporting them as required.  “There are now a total of 59.8 million unique NIN enrolments, with average of 3 to 4 SIMs per NIN.  With the great number of enrolment centres within and outside the country, and many more coming up, every citizen, legal resident, and Nigerian citizens living in diaspora should be able to obtain their NINs,” the statement said. Also, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy,  Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami has on behalf of the Federal Government, commended the Kano State government and other States that have made NINs a key requirement for school enrolments and access to other important services.   “The Federal Government is also excited at the news that the use of NIN in the process of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) exam significantly reduced the challenge of exam malpractice,” the statement said.  “The Minister, on behalf of the Federal Government, appreciates Nigerians for their patience and compliance with the Federal Government’s directive on the NIN-SIM registration exercise.    “Similarly, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, and the Director-General/CEO of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Engr. Aliyu Azeez, urge citizens and legal residents to make sure they use the opportunity to complete the process of enrolment and verification before the October 31 deadline,” the statement said.