The Southern Kaduna Baptist Conference (SKBC) has called for immediate and unconditional release of 121 students of Bethel Baptist High School, Damishi, Kaduna, abducted on June 5. President of the Conference, Rev. Donald Arak, made the call in a statement issued in Kafanchan, Kaduna State, on Saturday.   Gunmen invaded the school and took away scores of students and have demanded for bags of rice, beans, vegetable oil and salt among other foodstuffs from the school to keep feeding their victims. Arak described the abduction of the students as ungodly, just as he wondered how minors could be forcefully taken without considering the impact on their mental health.   He also wondered why it was taking long to track the kidnappers who had been communicating with the school, given the NIN-SIM integration policy of government. “How on earth will you forcefully take away such a number of minors without considering the psychological injury you will be inflicting on them. “This goes to show how ungodly and heartless the kidnappers are.   “And why haven’t these people been tracked? What is the reason for the NIN-SIM card registration? “Imagine the bandits requesting for specific number of food items and even bargaining. This is a systematically organised crime. “We, therefore, demand that these students be released without any further delay and in perfect condition of health,’’ he stated.   The cleric urged the state and Federal Government to do more in fulfilling their primary responsibility of securing lives and property. According to him, the Baptist Church has been in the vanguard of providing quality education in the country and will not relent in doing so in spite of the antics of criminal gangs. Arak noted that the Church would continue to pray for God to expose the sponsors and perpetrators of the heinous crime.   He prayed to God to grant the parents and the school management the enablement to remain strong and not despair during their trying period. “As for the parents and leadership of Kaduna Baptist Conference, let’s continue to pray for an end to all evil and their sponsors in Kaduna State and in the country at large. “Righteousness must overcome wickedness in Jesus name,’’ he added. (NAN)