MOP-UP UTME HOLDS FRIDAY, 6th AUGUST, 2021 — JAMB Following detailed investigation and careful analysis of the highly-successful 2021 UTME, and with due consultation (resulting in gracious concession) with the National Examination Council (NECO) concerning the timetable of the council’s ongoing SSCE, JAMB has scheduled a  Mop-up UTME for Friday, 6th August, 2021, in some selected locations across the nation. About  18,000 candidates slated for the examination are being notified through both text messages on their designated phone numbers and their JAMB profiles. In addition, the candidate can  check for updates using their registration number on http://www.jamb.gov.ng/2021mopup.For the avoidance of doubt, no candidate whose result has been duly released will be rescheduled for another examination contrary to the sponsored fake news being circulated on the social (and a few mischievous conventional) media. The rescheduled candidates are in the following categories:i. Candidates who could not be initially scheduled for examination owing to their inability to timely procure and supply  their mandatory NINs or profile codes until after the close of the registration exercise and, therefore, had to purchase Bank Drafts (as against the usual vending of PINs) after the scheduled period for the examination and were later registered. ii. Few candidates who encountered peculiar biometric verification problem, or who failed biometric verification on the examination date (and were recaptured) but were not allowed to partake in the examination. (Adequate screening arrangements have been made to reverify such claims and any candidate found to be involved in any form of impersonation  will be identified for prosecution).iii. Candidates who were  unable to sit for the UTME owing to the clash  of timetables of the  UTME and the then ongoing NABTEB examinations and whose particulars have been verified and supplied directly to JAMB by NABTEB, and iv. Candidates who have been ascertained by JAMB to have experienced genuine rescheduling/technical problems as was the case in 30  of the 760 centres used for the examination. The rescheduled candidates are to print fresh   examination notification slips containing the venue and time of the examination. The slips are to be printed from the JAMB website https://www.jamb.gov.ng  using the candidates’ registration number from Sunday, 1st August, 2021. The Board strongly advises candidates to avoid supplying their vital information, including registration number to fraudsters who are abound especially in cybercafe(s), tutorial centres springing up almost everywhere in the nation as a result of the illicit activities of examination syndicates.  CBT centres approved by JAMB which are consistently monitored are relatively more secured for printing examination notification slips by candidates who cannot print such on their own.Dr. Fabian BenjaminHead of MediaJAMB